# Team Oncology

Skin cancer is a problem with widespread impacts across the United States with approximately 9500 people diagnosed daily. More than 2 people die from this disease every hour, and the early detection of skin problems could be crucial in preventing the cancer from becoming fatal.

Skin cancer is one of the most serious conditions Dermatologists treat, and while most forms of skin cancer progress slowly, the sooner the treatment begins, the better the prognosis will be. 1 in 5 Americans will develop skin cancer by the age of 70 and more than 2 people die of skin cancer in the U.S. every hour. Having 5 or more sunburns doubles your risk for melanoma. When detected early, the 5-year survival rate for melanoma is 99 percent. Skin cancer is detectable at an early-stage relative to other cancers. Our goal is to create a system to detect skin cancer at the earliest stage possible to reduce the risks and encourage early treatment using Image Processing and Machine Learning technology.

Skin problems are not easily identifiable because these issues start out small and a person may not know about all the symptoms they are facing before it is too late. Without regular screening appointments, problems may go undetected for months or even years. In the United States, only 16 percent of men and 13 percent of women have had skin examinations over the past year; one main cause driving the low percentage of the population receiving regular skin screenings are the long wait times to see a Dermatologist. According to the Greater Access for Patients Partnership (GAPP), average patient wait times in the United States for Dermatology appointments were 32.3 days in 2017. Additionally, the average patient follow up time was six weeks, and the problem of long wait times is particularly serious in rural parts of the United States, where the numbers of Dermatologists are low. 
